OAuth 2.0 provider based on oauthlib is built into frappe. Third party apps can now access resources of users based on Frappe Role and User permission system. To setup an app to access

OAuth 2 defines four roles

resource owner

An entity capable of granting access to a protected resource. When the resource owner is a person, it is referred to as an end-user.

resource server

The server hosting the protected resources, capable of accepting and responding to protected resource requests using access tokens.

client

An application making protected resource requests on behalf of the resource owner and with its authorization. The term "client" does not imply any particular implementation characteristics (e.g.,
whether the application executes on a server, a desktop, or other devices).

authorization server

The server issuing access tokens to the client after successfully authenticating the resource owner and obtaining authorization.

Setup OAuth 2 Provider

System Managers can setup behavior of confirmation message as Force or Auto in OAuth Provider Settings.
If Force is selected the system will always ask for user's confirmation. If Auto is selected system asks for the confirmation only if there are no active tokens for the user.

Go to

 Setup > Integrations > OAuth Provider Settings

Add Primary Server

This is the main server hosting all the users. e.g. https://frappe.io. To setup this as the main server, go to Setup > Integrations > Social Login Key and add new Frappe Social Login Key. Enter https://frappe.io in the field Base URL. This URL repeats in all other Frappe servers who connect to this server to authenticate. Effectively, this is the main Identity Provider (IDP).

Under this server add as many OAuth Client(s) as required.

Add a Client App

As a System Manager go to

 Setup > Integrations > OAuth Client

To add a client fill in the following details

App Name : Enter App Name e.g. CAVS
Skip Authorization : If this is checked, during authentication there won't be me any confirmation message. Skip Authorization means the client is treated as trusted client.
Scopes : List of scopes shown to user along with confirmation message. scopes are separated by space.
Redirect URIs : List of Redirect URIs separated by space.
Default Redirect URIs : Default Redirect URI from list of Redirect URIs
Grant Type: select Authorization Code or Implicit.
Response Type: select Code if grant type is Authorization Code or select Token.

Using OAuth 2

Please refer to the API documentation to learn how to use OAuth 2 in you application.